Bret A. Comnes					            
Ashland, OR     				
bcomnes.github.com
Updated: January 13, 2012

EDUCATION:

 o Bachelor of Science in Physics, 			August 2006 - May 2011
   Humboldt State University, 				Arcata, CA
    - Physics Coursework: Thermodynamics, Analytical Mechanics, Electricity & 
      Magnetism, Quantum Mechanics, Optics, Physics of Stars & Planets, 
      Galaxies & Cosmology, Electronic Instrumentation, Programming for Science
    - Mathematics Coursework: Partial Differential Equations, Vector Calculus, 
      Linear Algebra

RESEARCH EXPERIENCE:

 o Undergraduate Research Assistant			May 2009 - September 2011
   HSU Gravitational Research Laboratory		Arcata, CA
    - Assisted with Professor C.D. Hoyle's research to test the Weak Equivalence 
      Principal and gravitational inverse-square law at sub-millimeter distance 
      scales.
    - Responsibilities included research and development of lab instrumentation, 
      custom data acquisition and automation applications, 
      electronic circuit design, optical instrumentation and signal processing
      systems for use inside of the experiment's vacuum chamber.
    - Managed the scheduling and collaboration tools used to organize the 
      students participating in the project.

 o Undergraduate Researcher  				November 2009
   Arecibo Observatory (NAIC) 				Arecibo, Puerto Rico
    - Participated as an undergraduate researcher in a Cornell University funded
      trip to the Arecibo Observatory to assist with observations for the
      ALFALFA survey.
    - Responsibilities included operating the one of the world's largest radio
      telescopes, data analysis using IDL and working live on scheduled
      research equipment.

PUBLICATIONS:

 o "Sub-millimeter Positioning and Sensing for Short-Range Gravity Tests" 2009
   Proceedings of the 25th National Conference on Undergraduate Research (NCUR)
    - Peer reviewed paper to accompany a presentation given at the 2011 
      National Conference of Undergraduate Research in Ithaca, NY.

RECENT WORK EXPERIENCE:

 o Academic Assistant					January 2009 - May 2011
   Humboldt State University				Arcata, CA
    - Graded student homework and lab write-ups for an introductory electronics 
      course for ~60 undergraduate physics and engineering students.
    - Responsibilities included understanding the range of solutions to a given
      problem, applying a grading rubric to the work, entering grades into a
      database, managing a course wiki and following privacy guidelines.
 
 o Premium Food and Retail Service			June 2009 - September 2011
   Arcata Scoop 					Arecibo, Puerto Rico
    - Responsibilities included opening and closing of the store, filling 
      customer orders, maintaining a balanced register, securing cash receipts, 
      training new employees and providing customer service and information.
 
 o Climbing Wall Attendant				August 2007 - June 2009
   HSU Student Recreation Center			Arcata, CA
    - Attended to the operation and safety of the largest indoor climbing wall 
      in Humboldt County.
    - Responsibilities included assessing the safety training and skills of
      the gym's patrons in order to maintain a safe climbing environment,
      hardware maintenance and rental management and route setting.

 o Park Aide						Summer 2008
   California State Parks				Lake Tahoe, CA
    - Issued park day passes and campground permits and provided information and
      rules to the D.L. Bliss State Park visitors.
    - Responsibilities included general rule enforcement; campground management;
      and the designing, organizing and presentation of the park's Junior Ranger
      program.
  
SKILLS:

Operating Systems, Languages, & Applications:
    - Proficient: Mathematica, LabVIEW, Windows, Mac OS X
    - Knowledgeable: LaTeX, Git, Microsoft Office, SolidWorks
    - Familiar: Assembly, C, Arduino, VISA/GPIB, Linux, Python, Ruby, HTML/CSS, Matlab

Lab Skills: Oscilloscopes, function generators, lock-in amplifiers, National 
    Instruments hardware, optical systems, lasers, motion control,
    instrumentation & part design, PCB & circuit design, capacitive sensors, 
    piezo electric actuators, general workshop equipment.

Miscellaneous: Demonstrated proficiency with public communication skills. 
    Excellent troubleshooting and debugging skills. Adept at learning new 
    languages and application suites. Local and remote collaborative skills. 
    Effective at teaching others.

INTERESTS:

Academic: Applied physics, optics, QM, metrology, microscopy, gravity, embedded systems, 
    computer science.

Personal: Rock climbing, bicycles, photography, electronic music, electric 
    bass, radio DJing, web development.

*References Available Upon Request*